[Music]
the King's jewel
the blue of France these are some
nicknames for the most mysterious and
seemingly dangerous gem in history the
selected few who were lucky enough to
possess the famous Hope Diamond died
horrific deaths but in the beginning
nobody could foresee the trouble the
gemstone which is now called the Hope
Diamond was formed deep within the earth
more than 1 billion years ago according
to Carl Shakur British cryptozoologist
and author of the book the unexplained
the diamond was originally used as one
of the decorations of an Indian temple
Idol but one day a Hindu priests decided
it was far too beautiful and valuable to
leave there and plucked it out he was
severely punished of course but the Hope
Diamond was already out of the temple
and in the hands of a famous French
merchant Jean Baptiste Tavernier and
here's where the story becomes a little
blurry
some say that tavern EA stole the
diamond from the previous owner while
others are sure he bought it rumor also
has it that tavern EA had a serious
raging fever not long after he got the
marvellous oak diamond one thing is for
sure he quickly sold it to king louis
xiv of france along with a couple of
other goodies king louie xiv decided to
change the famous diamond a bit and
asked his jeweler to make it triangular
and set it in gold after two years of
work the Hope Diamond was ready the king
usually wore it on his neck for
ceremonial occasions the diamond quickly
caught everyone's attention and got
nicknamed the Blue Diamond of the crown
and French blue
however the Hope Diamond curse got to
king louis xiv as well he died suffering
of gangrene moreover all but one of his
children didn't make it past their
childhood though it wasn't that uncommon
those days the King's successor King
Louis the 15th ordered the court jeweler
to reset the diamond once again for
order of the Golden Fleece then came
louis xvi who according to some sources
often let his wife Marie Antoinette wear
the beautiful gem well we all know how
that went don't we both louis xvi and
marie antoinette were executed by
guillotine during the French Revolution
ow the Hope Diamond was stolen from the
Royal storehouse shortly thereafter a
couple of years passed and the diamond
was suddenly discovered in England well
how did it get there several sources
confirmed that it was actually owned by
King George the fourth of the United
Kingdom maybe it's just a coincidence
but this King's life story wasn't that
happy either
he decreased the prestige of the
monarchy and was one of the most
unpopular rulers in the history of the
UK eventually his unhealthy lifestyle
made him extremely obese and almost
completely blind from cataracts he
didn't leave any descendants and died
from gastrointestinal bleeding George
the fourth also left enormous debts so
after his death the Hope Diamond was
apparently sold through private channels
the next recorded owner of the
mysterious and terrifying diamond was
rich London banker Thomas Hope after his
death his brother Henry Philip hope got
the diamond and even put it in his gem
collection catalog in 1839 however Henry
died that same year that raised only one
question who gets his large and
spectacular gem collection now Andrews
nephews Thomas's sons and his wife spent
10 years in court battling for their
rights to own the collection but in the
end it got split up the happy owner was
Henry's oldest nephew Henry Thomas hope
surprisingly the diamond stayed in the
family for many years hence it's most
commonly used name but in 1902 it was
sold once again to a London jewel
merchant after that the Hope Diamond
changed owners many times one of them
with the last Turkish sultan abdul
hameed the second
shortly after he bought the diamond his
life was completely changed by the
military revolution of the young turks
he was deported and spent his last days
in captivity after this tragic story the
Hope Diamond was bought by none other
than Pierre Cartier he reset the diamond
and sold it to the McLean family if only
they knew what was going to happen next
at first everything was perfectly fine
Evalyn Walsh McLean absolutely adored
the Hope Diamond and wore it almost
every single day sometimes she even put
it in her dog's collar and allowed it to
wear it as long as it was in the
apartment what the happiness didn't last
long
first Evelyn's mother-in-law died then
her nine-year-old son was in a car
accident and didn't make it this broke
her and her husband so much that he
actually left for another woman and
later died in a mental hospital at the
same time their family business the
McLean family owned the famous
Washington Post by the way went bankrupt
but the misfortunes didn't stop there
Evelyn's daughter passed away when she
was just 25 nonetheless Evelyn didn't
believe in the Hope Diamond curse and
the jewel was still kept in the family
then Evelyn died and as the family was
carrying huge debts the rest of her
children had to sell the diamond to
improve their financial situation hmm
doesn't say here what finally happened
to the dog undaunted by rumors of the
curse famous American jeweler Harry
Winston was the next to buy the diamond
so for the next 10 years or so the Hope
Diamond was the hot new thing at many
exhibits and charity events held by
Harry Winston incorporated however it
didn't stay in the company for long
Harry Winston decided to donate the
diamond to the Smithsonian Institute's
National Museum of Natural History and
believe it or not it's still there to
this day
now the Hope Diamond weighs a bit over
45 carats still has its deep greenish
blue color and even produces a dangerous
red glow
if you decide to expose it to shortwave
ultraviolet light why would you do that
I don't know needless to say it's still
worth a crazy amount of money so if you
want to see this legendary gem with your
own two eyes the museum is always open
for visitors
despite the diamonds rich history there
are still heated debates as to whether
it's actually cursed or not some people
are sure that all the legends about the
jewels cursed origins were simply
created to boost its popularity I mean
the sales for the Hope Diamond were
always pretty high others say that the
diamond wasn't originally stolen from
India at all someone just bought it from
there and hold on to your seat its
natural color was white unless you hold
it to the light then you'll see
beautiful like blue rings in 1911 the
New York Times came out with a whole
list of the diamonds supposed victims
the list consisted of about fourteen
people who died tragic deaths
not long after possessing or even
holding the Hope Diamond still if the
curse does exist Jean Baptiste Tavernier
king Louis the 14th Pierre Cartier and
many others died at a pretty old age of
course nobody knows what the Hope
Diamond is all about for sure but one
thing is certain it remains one of the
most popular attractions in the
Smithsonian Institute's Museum and still
catches everyone's attention so do you
know any other items with long and
fascinating histories let me know down
in the comments if you learn something
new today and give this video a like and
share it with a friend
but hey don't go anywhere just yet we
have over 2,000 cool videos for you to
check out all you have to do is pick the
left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life